in this tank is a tiny creature but it's
armed hiding under the rock is a pistol
shrimp and it's packing a lethal weapon
this crab is heading into trouble a
shrimp is ready for a scrap at first
sight it looks like he's punching the
intruder with his claw but in fact
something much stranger is going on its
weapon isn't exactly the claw itself not
the Ray the weapon is invisible as I
shall now demonstrate with this paint
brush but I'm not getting there with him
darned right did you hear that
that noise is a big clue to what's going
on
it's too fast to see so let's have a
look at it again in slow motion the
sound we hear is not from the claw
itself but from an amazing invisible
force the claws snap happens so fast it
causes a high speed water jet which
shoots forwards at almost 60 miles an
hour fast enough to vaporize the water
and form a bubble
[Music]
and that's a lot more dangerous than it
sounds the temperature inside the bubble
reaches over 4000 degrees and as it
collapses this massive energy is
released like a superheated shockwave
stunning or even killing its prey
the knockout punch comes not from the
claw but from the superhot power of a
bubble
this incredible force is called
cavitation it happens whenever water is
forced to move at extreme speeds and it
can do a lot more than scare off a
little crab
up to now it's been completely invisible
using ultra-high speed cameras we can
finally see it in action
this propeller is spinning so fast it
vaporizes the water around the tips of
the blades
creating streams of superhot bubbles
as they collapse they release a massive
wave of energy
[Music]
bombarding the propeller blades
it's so powerful it can destroy the
metal itself cavitation ruin this
propeller after a single journey across
the Atlantic
you